<h1> Market Research for the Video Game Industry W.R.T. Accessibility </h1>
<br>
<h2> 
  Identifying relevant projects, industry products and stakeholders
</h2>


  The US entertainment industry accounted for over 275 billion dollars of the US economy in 2021 (statista.com). The video game industry itself has drawn in around 80 billion dollars in 2021 and 2021 (ibisworld.com). Some of the largest development companies in this industry include Sony, Nintendo, Microsoft, Ubisoft and Activision Blizzard (newzoo.com). Sony alone accounted for nearly 25 billion dollars in revenue in 2020/2021, followed by Nintendo with 16 billion, Blizzard with 8 billion, Xbox Game Studios with 2.7 and Ubisoft with 2.23 billion (thexboxhub.com). 
<br>    
Despite the size and wealth of these development companies, the products they produce often fall short in delivering accessible software, and studios all tend to follow various regulations and standards regarding accessibility, sometimes even within their own teams (<a href = "https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/1555412020971500?casa_token=ANea-RrryfUAAAAA%3AanyC7cr_1RR2llgV9vGIPtvV2OwApG6VE9vKzVN6DqWoZBaG4V6TEsSTAEJBrIETKhRH6suq67-c">Brown and Anderson</a>) . 2K Studio’s Borderlands 3 for example attempted to implement many common accessibility features, such as subtitles, different color palettes for those with color-blindness, and larger UI’s for those with visual impairments. The game ultimately implemented these at a very basic level, and many oversights were found within the accessibility systems - such as text and UI elements covering or falling off the screen if text size and UI size were both increased (<a href = "https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/1555412020971500?casa_token=ANea-RrryfUAAAAA%3AanyC7cr_1RR2llgV9vGIPtvV2OwApG6VE9vKzVN6DqWoZBaG4V6TEsSTAEJBrIETKhRH6suq67-c">Brown and Anderson</a>) . Other games, such as Call of Duty: Ghosts’ , have attempted similar strides towards accessibility but still make oversights, such as making game-critical information, like enemy positioning cues,purely sound-based (Josh Straub, dagersystem.com). Gears 5, published by Ubisoft, has been touted as one of the industry’s best examples of an accessible AAA game, as it provides players with “an enormous selection of options, including color-blind settings, controller remapping, button toggles, and gore and language filters for certain cognitive disabilities” (<a href = "https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/1555412020971500?casa_token=ANea-RrryfUAAAAA%3AanyC7cr_1RR2llgV9vGIPtvV2OwApG6VE9vKzVN6DqWoZBaG4V6TEsSTAEJBrIETKhRH6suq67-c">Brown and Anderson</a>) . Gears 5 has also received largely positive reviews from Dager System, a website dedicated to providing game reviews with a focus on accessibility. Gears 5 received “Barriers Free” in every accessibility category on the reviewing platform, but despite this, features like aim assist are described as “squishy and imprecise”, indicating that even one of the industry leaders in accessibility could benefit from better user testing practices (Josh Straub, dagersystem.com). It is clear that the industry as a whole still has some significant strides to make in the name of accessibility. 
<br>    
The aforementioned products are all AAA games produced with the goal of reaching the largest number of players possible. Other projects, such as Heartbeat: Regret and Racing in the Dark - both of which were produced by much smaller teams - exist on the market and attempt to provide developers with insight into what a developer must consider when making games accessible. These games differ from the previous AAA games mentioned as they specifically target the demographic of those with severe visual impairments. Both games explore how critical game information - that is typically portrayed to a user through visual cues - can be delivered through haptic or auditory cues to the player. Racing in the Dark places a large focus on integrating a number of different cues together in a way that reduces cognitive load on the user, while Heartbeat: Regret focuses on creating a gaming experience that portrays the same amount of information to users, regardless of whether or not they use the visual component of the game. 
<br>    
This project hopes to build on the techniques implemented in the works mentioned above, and seeks to provide a framework that allows developers to understand what questions and considerations need to be addressed when designing for accessibility. 
<br>

<br>
The primary goal of this project is to provide developers with a framework that they can build off of and learn from when attempting to develop accessible games. By documenting the time spent on different systems, the pitfalls I encounter, common feedback I receive, and other information, I hope to help guide other developers, and allow them to make more accessible software, as well as more accurate time and cost predictions when creating accessible software. The project will be focused towards those with visual impairments, and the end deliverable will be a game meant to be played cooperatively by those with and without visual impairments. As such, I feel that there are two major groups of people who may benefit from this work: players with visual impairments, and game developers themselves. 
<br>

<br>
The video game development industry's primary demographic tends to be “able, relatively young males” of “generally homogenous demographics”. This could perhaps indicate a disconnect between the responsibilities of game developers and the knowledge and experiences available to them <a href = "https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3464327.3464365?casa_token=WHel7Sbzt6UAAAAA:FTzU8cle5kqWp6cmskWrYaOJJ4qlFYbSn0oxQ45Nl9aCLBCmDx_dL4jWqcX9tWvj7NO3RjvlqjYq">(Guillen, Jylhä & Hassan)</a>. Additionally, a focus on research regarding the medical applications of video games for people with disabilities, rather than on inclusion and accessibility in the industry itself, makes finding resources regarding best practices and standards for accessibility in production-level games difficult (<a href = "https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/full/10.1177/1555412020971500?casa_token=ANea-RrryfUAAAAA%3AanyC7cr_1RR2llgV9vGIPtvV2OwApG6VE9vKzVN6DqWoZBaG4V6TEsSTAEJBrIETKhRH6suq67-c">Brown and Anderson</a>). As such, the primary need of developers w.r.t. Inclusion and accessibility in video games seems to be information. Developers and project managers overwhelmingly rely on past experience and projects to guide new projects and outline project goals and timelines <a href= "https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/02/MSR-TR-2011-8.pdf"(Buse and Zimmerman)</a> - consequently, a lack of resources regarding the topics of accessibility in the industry can, and has, resulted in mistakes, oversights and lack of accessibility. This project seeks to rectify this information deficit by providing a robust and documented example of designing an accessible system intended for both visually impaired and non-visually impaired users alike. 
<br>
<br>
The other target demographic of this project is those who are severely visually impaired or even totally blind. Despite the aforementioned size and wealth of the industry, video games tailored specifically to those with visual Impairments remains a relatively niche field, with games being developed by passionate solo artists or relatively small teams. This project seeks to expand the field, and provide documentation that will allow future developers to more easily produce games for those with visual impairments, in order to increase accessibility of the video game industry as a whole. 


